
A general over view of the files for the Poly88.
This is a number of programs that are used to
save tape images from the Poly88 to a PC or to
transfer tape images from the PC to the poly88
to write to tapes.
 On the PC side are two programs, POLYUP.COM and
POLYWR.COM. These are intended to be used from
DOS. If using a Windows, and a DOS window, it
my still interfer with the transfer.
 The source files are included as POLYUP.SEQ
and POLYWR.SEQ. These are written in the Forth
language. They may take some learning if one
wants to rewrite these into some other language
as 'C' or othe language of choice.
 POLYWR.COM is used to transfer image information
to the POLY88 through the original serial port.
The Poly88 side must have SERLOAD in the
Poly88 memory running. The file POLYWR.TXT has
the bytes that can be entered the first time
to get the system bootstraped. This program
should be saved to tape to use in the future.
This should be done with TPERR since the SMD
provided by the Poly88 manual is to be loaded
at the same location.
 When images are saved to the PC, they have
the binary of TPERR at the begining of each
image. The is done this way because TPERR has the
routines in it to write the image file format
into the tape format used by the monitor.
 Tapes created by TPERR can then be used as normal
tapes on the Poly88.
 Saving tape images from the Poly88 to the PC is done
with POLYUp.COM, the tape SERDUMP and TPERR. This
is described in POLYUP.TXT. SERDUMP will send a
block of memory from the Poly88s memory to the PC.
In order to save a tape image it is necessary to
calculate the size of the image as described in
the file POLYUP.TXT. When using SERDUMP to save
images, it is also necessary to send then up with
TPERR attached, although, SERDUMP could be used
stand alone to save a binary of something like the
monitor ROM.
 To transfer images, TPERR is first used to read
tapes into memory. It reads and saves into RAM
not only the data but also the record headers. These
can then be used when creating a tape from the images
saved. Please read POLYUP.TXT for instructions on
using these programs to save images.
 TPERR can also be used to replicate tapes without
using SERDUMP.

Dwight Elvey 6/18/2011
